
# webLurch Developer Docs

## A Development Platform

Rewriting the Lurch desktop app for the web involves building many
supporting tools that we call the *Lurch Web Platform.*  Other developers
can build math-enabled web apps on the same platform, which improves the
platform and grows the community.

We've made the architecture simple and the learning curve small.  [See the
demo applications and tutorial to start developing.](dev-tutorial.md)  We
are currently using the platform to build the web rewrite of desktop Lurch.

## Architecture

The following table illustrates the software architecture.  Read it from the
bottom up.

<table>
  <tr>
    <td>Applications:</td>
    <td align=center><i>Lurch Proof Checker</i></td>
    <td align=center><a href='dev-tutorial.md'>Demo apps</a></td>
    <td align=center>Your app</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Platform:</td>
    <td align=center colspan=3><i>Lurch Web Platform</i></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Foundation:</td>
    <td align=center colspan=3><a href='http://www.tinymce.com'>TinyMCE
        editor</a></td>
  </tr>
</table>

## Getting involved

If you're interested in helping out with development of this project (e.g.,
upstream commits if you use the platform), contact
[Nathan Carter](mailto:ncarter@bentley.edu).

## Repository details

All source code is in [literate
CoffeeScript](http://coffeescript.org/#literate).  This makes it highly
readable, especially on GitHub, which renders it as MarkDown.  I have tried
to be verbose in my comments, to help new readers.

Repository overview:

 * `/` (root folder)
    * `package.json` - used by [node.js](http://nodejs.org) to install
      dependencies  (The app runs in a browser, not node.js.  This is just
      for dev tools.)
    * `cake.litcoffee` and `buildutils.litcoffee` define the build process.
 * `app/` folder
    * Demo apps and the plugins that create them reside here.  You can try
      them out live on the web; see
      [the demo apps and tutorials page](dev-tutorial.md).
    * The *Lurch Proof Checker* is being rewritten for the web and many of
      its files live in this folder.
 * `src/` folder
    * Source code files used for building the platform.
    * The build process compiles these into files in the `app` folder.
 * `test/` folder
    * Unit tests.
    * To run them, execute `cake test` in the main folder, after you've set
      it up as per [the Getting Started page](getting-started.md).
    * Test reports go to a `reports/` folder that the test suite creates
 * `doc-src/` folder
    * All source files (Markdown) for documentation, generated by
      [mkdocs](http://www.mkdocs.org/).
 * `docs/` folder
    * Exists only in `gh-pages` branch
    * Compiled version of `doc-src/` folder, for hosting on GitHub Pages
 * `jsfs/` folder
    * [This submodule](https://github.com/nathancarter/jsfs)
