
# Project Plan

This document aims to be a complete plan for what needs to be done on this
project, readable by developers.  It can therefore be viewed as a to-do list
in chronological order, the first items being those that should be done
next, and the later items those that must come after.  Necessarily, the
later items are more vague than the earlier ones.

Note also that there are some [known bugs and planned enhancements](
bugs-and-enhancements.md) not listed in this file, because they are not part
of the linear progression of the project.  They can be addressed whenever it
becomes convenient or useful; this document lists things in a more-or-less
required order of completion.

## Completing Validation

 * Add an event to group types for when a click or double-click happens on a
   grouper.  Call the event handler in the group type with three parameters,
   the first the group object, the second a string "single" or "double"
   (which kind of click), and the third a string "open" or "close" (which
   grouper).
 * In the main app, create a stub handler for this event that just tests to
   be sure the event is coming through correctly.
 * Add to the Dialogs plugin a function that takes a string and a callback
   as parameters, creates a dialog displaying the string and no buttons,
   and ends by calling the callback, passing it a function that closes the
   dialog.  Call the function `waiting`.
 * Test this by replacing the stub handler above with a function that calls
   `waiting`, then after one second, calls the close handler.  This will
   test to be sure `waiting` works.
 * Factor `Group::validate` into two functions, one asynchronous function
   that computes the validation data and passes it to a callback, the other
   still called `Group::validate` that just calls the asynchronous one, then
   stores its result using `saveValidation`.
 * Finish the stub by making the delay not a dummy one-second delay, but a
   call to the asynchronous validation computation routine.  When the
   callback is called, close the waiting dialog, then display an alert that
   shows the validation data, including result, message, and verbose.

## Dependencies

 * Extend the Background Computation module so that it can accept as
   parameters for a task not only groups in the document, but also groups in
   dependencies.
 * Implement the `saveMetaData` function used by [the Dependencies
   plugin](https://github.com/nathancarter/weblurch/app/dependenciesplugin.litcoffee)
   to export the list of labeled, top-level expressions.
 * Implement a handler for `loadMetaData` that calls `import`, as documented
   in the Dependencies Plugin's ["Responsibilities"
   section](https://github.com/nathancarter/weblurch/app/dependenciesplugin.litcoffee#responsibilities).
 * Implement a handler for `dependenciesChanged` that does these things:
    * Call `addExpression` on all expressions imported from all
      dependencies.
    * Call `validate` again on any expression whose reason cites a rule in a
      dependency.
 * Ensure that `dependenciesChanged` is called right after the document is
   loaded, so that all dependency expressions are added to the label pairs
   list on document load.
 * Keep track of the number of background processes launched for validation
   by incrementing a counter when one starts, and decrementing it when one
   ends.
 * If that counter is positive when `saveMetaData` is called, return an
   error message and tell the user in an alert box, as described in the
   Dependencies Plugin's ["Responsibilities" section](https://github.com/nathancarter/weblurch/app/dependenciesplugin.litcoffee#responsibilities).

## Parsing test

Rewrite the following section to more accurately reflect Section 24 of the
specification, then implement it as a module attached to the main Lurch
application, a module that can easily be disabled if we need to redesign it.

 * Create a group type called "category name" that can hold any text.  Its
   tag will always contain the phrase "category name."
 * Create a group type called "category definition."
   * It has an attribute called "definition type" that can be selected with
     the bubble tag context menu, and is one of the following.
     * Built-in types
       * integers base 10
       * real numbers base 10
       * one letter a-z/A-Z
       * (more can be added to this list later)
     * Regular expression
     * Symbol (containing, for example, the infinity symbol or Ï€)
     * Pattern (containing, for example, a non-atomic bubble, or a
       MathQuill instance)
   * Whichever of the above is chosen will be used as the bubble tag
     contents.
   * Choosing any of the options, if the bubble is empty, fills the bubble
     with example content for that definition type.  For built-in types, it
     fills the bubble with a human-readable description of the built-in.
 * Make "category name" groups able to connect by arrows to "category
   definition" groups or "category name" groups, but only up to one target.
 * Create a group type called "name" that can hold any text.
   * Permit it to connect to a "category definition" group, but only up to
     one target.
   * Permit "category type" groups to connect to "name" type groups also,
     but still at most one target.
   * Its tag will behave as follows.
     * If it is not connected to a target, the tag says "name."
     * If it has no category name connected to it, the tag says "operator
       name."
     * If it contains any commas or spaces, the tag says "variable names."
     * Otherwise, it says "variable name."
 * Create a group type called "test" that can hold any text.  Its tag always
   contains the phrase "test."
 * Create a method that computes, for any given "category definition" group,
   a simple representation of what function should be called in a parser
   object to extend it by adding that definition; the result should be JSON.
   * A built-in category definition B modified by a category name N should
     represent the grammar rule N -> B.
   * A regular expression category definition R modified by a category name
     N should represent the grammar rule N -> R.
   * A symbol category definition S modified by a category name N should
     represent the grammar rule N -> S.
   * One category name N1 modified by another N2 should represent the
     grammar rule N2 -> N1.  This is the first rule for which the right-hand
     side is a non-terminal.
   * A pattern category definition P modified by a category name N will
     usually also have other things modifying it.  An optional operator name
     (as a name bubble) can target P; call that bubble O.  Also there may be
     bubble V1 through Vn targeting P, each of type name, specifying which
     identifiers in P are to be seen as placeholders (not literals).  Each
     such Vi should be modified by a category name Ni to give it a type (in
     the sense of grammar non-terminals).  This entire structure should
     represent the grammar rule N -> P', where P' is P with each Vi replaced
     by Ni.  The bubble O will be used to construct an OpenMath symbol used
     when constructing a parse tree, and which will be mentioned in the
     bubble tag for expressions with this operator as their outermost.  Note
     also that each Vi may contain one or more variables.
 * The `contentsChanged` handler for any given group in the document should
   call that function in itself (if it's a category definition group) or (if
   it's not) in any category definition group to which it's connected,
   storing the result as an attribute of the group on which it was called.
 * Create a function that applies any such JSON record of a command to a
   parser object, thus modifying that parser appropriately.
 * Whenever any definition type group in the document has its JSON meaning
   recomputed, loop through all category definition top-level groups in the
   document, doing the following.
   * Before the loop, create a parser P.
   * Upon encountering a category definition group *after* the one that
     changed, apply to it the function that extends P with the meaning of
     that group.
   * Upon encountering a test type group, run P on its contents and place
     the resulting structure within the test type group.
 * Whenever any test type group in the document changes, do the same loop as
   above, but the only test that should be recomputed is the one that
   changed.
 * Create a context menu item in test type groups that allows you to see, in
   a popup window, the parsed structure stored in that group.
 * Add a context menu item in test type groups that allows you to mark a
   test as currently passing.  This takes the currently parsed meaning of
   that group and stores it under a second key, the meaning that *ought* to
   be parsed by that group.  (For later comparison purposes, if input data
   changes, to prevent regression.)
 * Add a context menu item for removing such marks.
 * When writing to a test type group's meaning attribute (or to the
   attribute storing the meaning it ought to have), also mark it with a
   suffix that looks like one of the following.
   * If it has no data stored for what structure it ought to have, mark it
     with a gray question mark.  Hovering the question mark should explain
     this.
   * If the "what ought to be parsed" data matches the data we just parsed
     and are now storing, mark it with a green check box.  Hovering should,
     again, explain this.
   * Mark it with a red check box, and a corresponding hover explanation.

## Google Drive support

Google Drive also provides a very nice [real time collaboration API](
https://developers.google.com/google-apps/realtime/overview) that makes any
document you like into a Google-Docs-like collaborative model where changes
are auto-synced across collaborators.  This was an idea that Dana Ernst
asked for long ago when he first heard about the webLurch project. Integrate
that into webLurch, imitating the UX Ken describes from typical online
collaboration apps such as Google Docs and Overleaf, as follows.

 * Just a note that none of the changes below impact the wiki import and
   export functionality; that stays as it is now.
 * Provide a section in the File > Application settings... dialog that will
   be for Google Drive authentication, but you don't have to put the Google
   login functionality there yet.  Include full explanatory text about how
   cloud saving works with webLurch (as described below).
 * File > Save and File > Save as... actions should be removed entirely.
 * Before adding Google Drive integration, change the items on the File menu
   to behave as follows.
   * Whenever the document is dirty, it has a warning message on the toolbar
     that says something like "Not saved" followed by a button that says
     "Enable cloud storage."
   * The "Go online" button will open the document preferences dialog and
     scroll down to/highlight the section about logging into Google Drive.
   * File > Document properties... will let you change the name of the
     document which will simply be stored as document metadata; it will have
     no impact on filename, since there is no filename (yet).
   * Corresponding changes take place in the toolbar.
   * Add File > Download, which starts a download of the file as HTML.
   * Add File > Upload, which lets the user choose an HTML file to upload,
     accepts the upload, strips any dangerous tags from it, then does the
     same thing as File > New, above, before pasting the HTML content
     directly into the new, blank document.
 * Add to the application settings section about Google Drive the actual
   login/auth button.  Once a user has logged in, the button becomes a
   disconnect-from-my-Drive button (de-auth).  See the tutorial on how to
   do so [here](
   https://developers.google.com/google-apps/realtime/realtime-quickstart),
   and especially the JavaScript tools they've developed for your use
   [here](https://github.com/googledrive/realtime-utils/blob/master/realtime-client-utils.js).
 * When a user gives such authorization, the following changes take place:
   * The currently-open file in the app should then be moved into Google
     Drive as a new document.  Attempt to preserve document title, if one
     was set in document properties.  If Drive requires unique titles, you
     may need to append a number.
   * Change File > New so that it does this same procedure of moving the
     (newly created) document into Drive, with a default title such as
     "Untitled Document."
   * The toolbar will no longer say "Not saved," but will say either
     "Saved to Drive" or "Syncing..." (if in progress).
   * File > Open looks in your Google Drive for Lurch files to open, and
     presents you a flat list.  If possible, sort it by most recently used.
   * File > Manage files... gets replaced by File > Open my Google Drive.
     All file management will take place through Google's UI, not mine.
 * If a user de-authorizes webLurch from their Google Drive, then all
   entries on the File menu should revert to their original behavior.
 * Get this to work across multiple instances of the Lurch app in different
   tabs as follows.
   * Store in Local Storage the fact that the user has given a Drive login
     and succeeded, when that login takes place.
   * Have the app poll that setting every second or two, and if it sees that
     it has changed from no to yes (due to the user's logging into Drive in
     another tab of the app), then re-run the silent Google login attempt
     routine to complete the login in that tab as well.  (I think?)

## Tutorials

 * Create a way for users to navigate the pages of a tutorial.  Probably the
   easiest and most flexible way to do this is to make it so that one of a
   document's settings is whether clicking links in it navigates to them.
   (Right now it just puts the cursor in them.)  Enabling such a setting
   then allows the document author full freedom to format the tutorial
   pages however they like, with next/previous/other links wherever they
   want them, looking however they want them to look.
 * Make it so that following such links first prompts you with an "Are you
   sure?" dialog, so that you can save first or optionally open the link in
   a new tab.
 * In such documents, links whose target is not "new window" (as determined
   by the checkbox in the link-editing UI built into TinyMCE) should fetch
   their results using AJAX and load them in the current editor, again after
   prompting with an "Are you sure?" dialog.
 * Now you can create any number of tutorials by simply publishing all the
   pages to the wiki, and having them link to one another in whatever
   configuration you want (linear or otherwise) using absolute URLs.
 * Create an initial Lurch tutorial and post it to the wiki.
 * Create a Help menu item that loads that tutorial.
 * When Lurch launches, pop up a dialog saying that there is a tutorial on
   the Help menu, and they can check the "Don't show again" box if they so
   desire.  Alternately, just flash the Help menu as you do in the demo
   apps.

On a related note, the "Cheatsheets" menu item of the RStudio GUI is an
excellent resource for many users.  It contains links to online PDFs of
one- or two-sided printable, dense reference sheets for common topics in
RStudio.  A similar cheatsheet (or set thereof) could be created about
Lurch.  Consider these topics.

 * The advanced users guide, condensed into a two-sided reference
 * Understanding and dealing with validation messages
 * A reference for each of the built-in libraries

## Offline support

To make an HTML5 app available offline, I believe the appropriate step is
simply to provide an app manifest.  I'm verifying that with [this
StackOverflow
question](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/27136144/how-can-online-offline-versions-of-an-html5-app-access-the-same-localstorage).
That question links to a tutorial on app manifests, if the answer turns out
to be "yes" to that question.

## Ideas from various sources

### All images consistently base64

[This GitHub comment](
https://github.com/buddyexpress/bdesk_photo/issues/2#issuecomment-166245603)
might be useful for ensuring that even images pasted into a document get
converted to base64, as all the other images in the document are.

### LMS integration

Suggestion from Dana Ernst: Perhaps this is not necessary or feasible, but
if you go with a web app, could you make it easy for teachers to "plug into"
the common LMS's (e.g. Blackboard, Canvas, etc.)?  I'm envisioning students
being able to submit assignments with ease to an LMS and then teachers can
grade and enter grades easily without have to go back and forth between web
pages.

### Further wiki integration?

Is it possible for the entire Lurch app to exist inside MediaWiki, so that
editing a wiki page was done using Lurch as the editor?  That would be
excellent for many use cases.  Offline use would still necessitate the
normal app, and this would be tricky to accomplish, because wiki integration
of something that complex will be touchy, but it would be impressive and
intuitive.

### Desktop app

Convert webLurch into a desktop app using
[electron](https://github.com/atom/electron).
This gives the user an app that always works offline, has an icon in their
Applications folder/Start menu, etc., and feels like an official app that
they can alt-tab to, etc., but itâ€™s the exact same web app, just wrapped in
a thin desktop-app shell.  You can then add features to that as time
permits.

 * When the user clicks "save," you can have the web app first query to see
   if itâ€™s sitting in a desktop-app wrapper, and if so, donâ€™t save to
   webstorage, but pop up the usual save box.
 * Same for File > Open.
 * Same for accessing the system clipboard
Similar apps could be created for iOS, Android, etc., but would need to use
tools other than Electron.  These are orthogonal tasks, and need not all be
done by the same developer.

## Repository organization

 * The `app/` folder is getting cluttered.  Create an `app/examples/`
   subfolder and move every `*-example.html` and `*-example-solo.litcoffee`
   into it.  Update any relative links to other resources, and any links to
   those pages.
    * This requires also updating the `cake.litcoffee` to compile files in
      that subfolder as well.
    * It also requires taking care with the `gh-pages` merge, so that
      compiled files get deleted/recreated correctly in that branch (once).

## Improving documentation

Documentation at the top of most unit test spec files is incomplete. Add
documentation so that someone who does not know how to read a test spec file
could learn it from that documentation.  Probably the best way to do this is
to add general documentation to the simplest/main test spec, and then
reference that general documentation from all other test specs.
